A lot of the actual implementation of this project,
comes down to parsing the Linux file system.
In order to get data about the system to display in the system monitor.
So we've provided a few examples,
of how to parse the file system in order to get data that you're looking for.
Then there are lots of different functions,
within the Linux parser namespace,
that have dummy implementations that you'll have to replace with your own logic.
But we have a couple of basic implementations here.
Maybe we'll start by looking at the implementation of kernel.
How do we get the name of the kernel?
So this is pretty straightforward.
We declare a few different strings and then we create an input file stream,
from the path for
the operating system kernel version and that's proc directory plus version file name.
Actually if we open up,
Linux parser.h, we can see exactly where that's pointing to.
Proc directory is slash proc,
that's where a lot of the system data lives and then version file name is slash version.
So before we even write any code,
if we just come here and we look at slash proc, slash version.
We can see the file consists of just one line and the line is
this long string and it looks like the
first token in the string is a Linux and the second token is version.
Then this third token is the actual name of the version.
This is probably what we actually wanted to display or output in our system monitor.
So we create this input file stream.
We check to make sure we were able to open the stream.
Essentially were we able to open slash proc, slash version.
Then if we were able to open the stream,
let's get aligned from the stream and let's store it in
this line string that we declared earlier.
Once we have that line,
we're actually going to create a string stream from the line.
So we've created a file stream.
We've used that file stream to get a string.
Now we're going to create a string stream from the string.
So I realize that's a little bit of a tongue twister and it's a little hard to follow.
But what creating the string stream does,
is it allows us to pull tokens off of the stream.
Otherwise, parsing up this line,
which is just this line down here,
on spaces, is going to be a lot of work.
But if we create a string stream,
then, the standard library does a lot of this work for us.
So when we create this string stream,
we can pop off the first token,
which is the operating system name that's Linux and the second token which is version.
Then what we want is the third token.
In fact actually, it looks here like we need to fix something.
We're pulling off the first token and then the second token,
but what we want is the third token.
So let's just call the second token version.
Then we're going to have to come up here and declare it.
So now, we're pulling off three tokens
and that third token is what we want and we're going to return it.
If for some reason,
opening the string or something else fails here,
we'll just return kernel which is instantiated as a blank string by default.
So that's how we parse this one line file in order to get the version name.
Let's look at how we would do something a little more complex,
which is how we get the operating system name.
The operating system name is stored in OS path,
and if we look at Linux parser.h,
OS path or KOS path,
is slash etc slash OS release.
So that's a rare file that's actually not in the proc directory.
So let's look at cat etc slash OS-release.
This file has a bunch of different lines.
So it's a little more complex than the previous file we were looking at.
Each line has this key value pair.
Key equals value.
But it gets a little hairy because the keys can have spaces in them.
The values have these quotes around them.
We'll probably have to deal with that,
as we parse up this file.
But let's look at how we handle this file.
The first thing we do is like before,
we create a file stream from the path and we check if we're able to open the file stream.
If we were, we read in a line.
In fact, we have a while loop this time.
Because there are multiple lines.
We create a while loop and we say,
as long as we're able to read in another line from the file stream, keep going.
Then, with each line,
we do some character replacement.
Essentially to deal with the fact that the keys have spaces in them.
There are these quotation marks,
the delimiter here that we seem interested in is equal.
So we do a little bit of substitution,
to essentially make each line a little easier to parse.
We basically split up the line,
into a key and a value two tokens.
We create a line stream or an input string stream,
from our string and this is similar to what we did with the kernel function before.
Then we start popping tokens off of the string stream,
and we've organize things.
So there's a key and a value.
We look at the key and we say,
if the key is equal to pretty underscore name,
then return the corresponding value.
If we look down here pretty underscore name,
maps onto Ubuntu 16.04.5 LTS,
which is the value we want.
The reason there's an underscore in the comparison string up here,
is because we've done some of that character substitution I was alluding to earlier.
Where we initially swap out spaces for underscores,
in order to just make everything a little easier to parse.
So pretty space named,
becomes pretty underscore name.
That makes it easy to pop off as a single token.
We look and see if our token is equal to pretty underscore name.
If it is, then we want to return the value.
Before we return the value,
we want to swap things around again.
We want to replace all the underscores that we just put in the value with spaces.
To make things back like they were and then we return the value.
So this is another example of how to parse
up a file this time a file with multiple lines.
We run this while loop and we get lines from the file.
Most of the functions in the Linux parser namespace,
use some version of this,
where we're opening up a file and we are checking if the file is open.
Then pulling lines off of the file and figuring
out what part of the line we want to return.
There is a odd function,
that we've implemented for you in
the Linux parser namespace and that's the function to get all the process ID's.
Essentially what we're trying to do here,
is we're looking at the proc directory and all of
these directories within proc that have integral values,
integer values, those correspond to process IDs.
Those mapped to processes.
We'd like to return a list of process Id's that's
essentially every directory name, that's an integer.
That is a little bit tricky to do.
So we've written the code for you.
It uses this dir,
directory pointer that actually comes,
if we look way up here.
In the Includes, there's this dirent file
that we can pull in as part of the C standard library,
that we're using here.
I've mentioned there's a bonus for this function.
If you really want to go crazy,
you can update this function to use the C++ standard file system.
Part of the standard library,
which came in with C++ 17, unfortunately,
the version of GCC that installs natively on Ubuntu,
through the package manager,
does not yet support standard file system.
So you'd have to install your own version of GCC that's newer,
and then figure out how to use standard file system.
It's actually much cleaner than using these kind of directory pointers.
But it's a little harder because
the compiler or GCC doesn't support it out of the box on Ubuntu yet.
So we've given that to you and essentially all what all this code does,
is return a vector of process ID's.
It's a vector of integers that maps to the process ID's.
Then there are lots of other functions for you to implement in here.
That mainly involve going into different files and pulling out the relevant data.
In some of the related texts,
we'll talk with you about how to get that data.